---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Typescript: Language of Doom"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2025-09-03
published: true
labels:
  - Typescript
  - Struggles
---

I have coded a variety of languages since becoming a student in college, some I don't like such as Java, but some I love like Python and Javascript. Typescript however since beginning the class ICS 314 has been my least favorite of them all. As a superset of Javascript, most would find that it is simple and better to do than Javascript, but I find the contrary. Typescript being a statically typed language, means that this language checks and knows the data types of the variables, before it runs. While that can be beneficial, for me I don't like adding these extra steps. Javascript is a dynamic typed language, and having to not declare variable types makes it way faster to get started. The fewer rules helps me know exactly what to do, versus using Typescript, which is very strict in the format of running the code. 

Another reason why I dislike Typescript is because of how much less flexibility I have with Typescript. As a developer I prefer the dynamic typing over static, as when dealing with dynamic content or data structures, these types might not be predictable or consistent. Typescript being newer as well doesn't help especially with older tools, libraries and browsers that still support Javascript over Typescript. With Typescript, I need to as well overload my brain with more concepts, such as interfaces and tsconfig, while with Javascript I can simply focus on logic and features, making it personally, a lot more enjoyable than any other language. Typescript even requires a transpilation into Javascript when trying to run, which adds extra steps to an already complicated lines of code. However, one thing I do think Typescript is good for is that static typed language. I previously mentioned how it does take extra steps to add into your code, but I am realizing now that maybe it is beneficial in certain circumstances to adjust this into your code, as catching a bug early is better than later with thousands of lines written. 

Comparing it to other languages such as Python, C, and C++, it is enormously a larger amount of workload. Does it save the user time in the long run? That all depends on the type of project being created. With C code and Python, these are very fast and efficient languages. Both are a lot more readable when it comes to syntax, and are rich in quick and easy projects. Java is a more comparable language to Typescript, as they both enforce types, classes, and interfaces, however Java is slightly more needed when it comes to larger backend projects. Overall Typescript has its benefits with larger frontend creations, but for me personally, using Javascript, Python, and C will over my first instinct when deciding what I want to code with. 

With prior knowledge to Javascript, learning ES6 was interesting to me on many levels. To me sometimes Javascript can feel clunky, but as I was reading, it seems knowing ES6 essentially allows for Typescript to feel more natural. I hadn't even realized that I had already been using much of ES6 before, such as using "let" and "const". Using ES6 allows for me to recognize more Typescript easily, and making it a lot more readable. While I am a very lazy coder, I should possibly in my free time learn and understand ES6 and its rules, as it will allow for me understand all the Typescript strictness, making it way less intimitading. 

Internally I feel as Typescript is a great language, as it benefits the user with its static coding, allowing for less errors in the long run. For larger projects, it gives the user a safe, lightly structured layout of code. However for me personally I would not use it when engineering a new idea or application. For me there is too many extra unneeded steps within the design process that make it unlikely to use later on. I love the simplicity of Javascript and how I can easily understand what is happening from the get-go. Is it possible for my opinion to change in the future? Absolutely, as for now however I think that Typescript to me is unneeded and too uncanny. 
